right here at the cat Lake area getting
ready for the cat scratch fever and I'm
talking to legendary rider and trail
builder Steve Clawson Steve you spin
take for those of you don't know he's
been the course director of the course
liaison for the cat scratch fever and
he's been working tires tirelessly with
other volunteers to make this course way
better than years past for the reason
that it's a great area but the trails
are really tough through and we want to
actually make the trails so they're fast
and fun and flowy which deed has been
doing so you tell us a little bit about
what you've been doing well most of the
work we've been doing is on the B loop
and just getting that into the right
condition to satisfy be rider so they
can go around and have a good time while
they're here the loops a bit shorter so
they'll be done in about 30 minutes for
the faster people and they'll be doing
about four or five laps within the two
hours and then after that they do one
more in their time allotment the a loop
is as hard as it can be pretty much we
took out one section that was extremely
difficult for people to manage and
because too many guys were crying on it
yeah we had you know who you are up guys
turn to cry babies yeah and there are a
few people that were sad we took that
part out but they'll do just fine the
it's been shortened by a few kilometers
so some of the top guys will probably do
six laps within three hours and so the
spectator area will be amazing you'd be
able to see people who live
one of the things when we're building
trail is to make sure that the corners
are wide enough for whatever machine it
is that you have going through and then
some because if you think about a guy
coming through or a girl on a dirt bike
they're going to be leaning into this
corner they're going to have their
handle bar down there going to be going
in and the point where the camera is at
pointing at me is where you're going for
this log right here you could get your
hand guard on that if you laid it over
far enough the other thing is this stuff
that you can't even see from over there
is right on the inside and if you look
you can actually see that people have
hit their pegs on it so one other thing
to do is to take these things out it
makes a trail fun and safe that's
exactly what we want here we have one of
our water crossings we're used to just
actually go right into the water and
across the other side years ago and we
built a bridge here now this is actually
Spencer steelhead fishing hole that's
what we call this and now the bridge is
there it'll actually be much better for
well we just finished building this
awesome bridge here and the dirt bikers
are in the cat scratch you're going to
come down it and of course it's great
for the trials riders to write up a this
another spot that the trail was modified
used to come down here just down a
little side here you can see it
parallels the river and down and high
flows in the river it would actually
wash out the bottom and it got really
Rudy and Jimmy EE down to water so they
Steve in a crew of people here came
across bitch to cross up the top control
this beautiful new bridge nice and wide
lots of room to the enduro bikes to
school up and then it comes across here
and then it benched across and rolled
out around the corner circled around and
comes back and joins the original trail
down at the bottom just another way to
build a sustainable fun enduro trail
well that's a little bit of oak trail
building remember join your local club
get out there help the trail builders on
those maintenance days volunteer and
take care of your trails there for
everybody you enjoy
you